---
layout: post
title: Replacing Nest
date: 2019-05-14 19:35:00
categories: technical
comments: true
---

The big announcement at Google I/O '19 is that Google is discontinuing
the *Works with Nest* API program. Nest is the only no-local-control
ecosystem I have in my house, and it was so very clearly a mistake in
hindsight. In order for an end user to integrate Nest with a third party
product like Home Assistant, one needs a developer account. Right off
the bat, Nest assumed that the only people who would want to do such a
thing is *other* cloud-based services like Hue, or Amazon who would
interact with Nest on behalf of a user, rather than a user themselves.

I currently have a developer account, and I use it with Home Assistant
to do a number of automations tied to my Nest devices.  There's a lot of
customized control over when the HVAC goes into away (eco) or home mode
based on the arrival and departure - or expected arrival - of my home's
residents.  More interestingly, a number of automations around Nest
Protect enhance the safety of my home by unlocking the doors if people
are home, turning on lights, and disabling the HVAC system in the event
of an incident.

None of these would be possible if Nest shuts down the Works with Nest
program, other than whatever specific partner integrations they allow.
This is all in the name of "privacy," which in Google's mind is that
your private information is only known by you and Google.  Why, then,
have they not assauged the hobbyist communitys concerns by announcing a
local API option?

The protocols that Nest devices use are open source-ish, called Weave
and Thread.  Certainly they could open them up to allow me to control my
own devices. Anyway, even if Google eventually figures it out and does
the right not-evil thing, I figured I should look at alternatives.

For now, I've already replaced my thermostat with a Venstar ColorTouch
T7850.  It features a [local API](https://developer.venstar.com/assets/ColorTouchRemoteControlAPIv3rev1.pdf), and a [home assistant component](https://www.home-assistant.io/components/venstar/).

It's not as pretty as a Nest's round, sleek appearance but it's works
well and has full local control.  The Nest Protects' most likely
replacement is a Z-wave device from First Alert, but for now I've kept
them.  I do like their voice announcements of the problem - in Spanish
and English - and the pathlight feature when one walks down the hallway
at night.
