---
layout: post
title:  RV Media Setup
date:   2022-04-05 19:50:00
tags:   technical
author: "Stephen Benjamin"
comments: true
---

Just some random notes about my RV network setup.

Parts in RV

 - UniFi airCube AC mini WiFi AP / Router
 - Netgear LTE 4G hotspot, with ethernet
 - Raspberry Pi 4, running Raspberry Pi OS
 - Apple TV
 - Antennas:
   - Netgear 6000450 MIMO Antenna
   - 11dBi High Gain 3G 4G/LTE Waterproof Fixed-Mount Panel Dual Polarized MIMO Antenna

At home

 - Synology NAS, running Channels
 - UniFi Security Gateway (USG)

The airCube and Netgear LTE hotspot are relatively straight forward to
setup, I use an AT&T prepaid plan which gets me 100Gb/month. It's
unfortunately not a ton of bandwidth, but we generally don't run out
since we're only up at the seasonal site on weekends, and maybe an odd
week or two during the summer.

I have two antenna options for my Netgear hotspot.  There's an external
11dBi antenna I mount on a pole, and run the cables through the slide.
This is really only ever used when we're going to remote New Hampshire,
otherwise the hotspot or the mini window MIMO antenna Netgear sells work
fine.

If you'd rather link up to the camground wifi, you can buy something
like the UniFi Nanostation Loco M5, and link your RV network to the
campground's WiFi.

At some point, I'll have to think about moving to something that
supports 5G, but the LTE speeds are fine for what we do.

# Raspberry Pi Setup

My raspberry pi is running the raspberry pi OS, headless. It mostly just
acts as a VPN gateway for my Apple TV, which doesn't support any VPN. I
may have it do something else, like hosting a local media server.

The VPN lets me access my Channels instance at home, and stream live TV
(HD Homerun with CableCARD) or our media library. This generally works
well enough that I haven't found the need to say run something local.

## Some software I installed

```
$ history | grep install
    5  apt install cockpit
   11  apt install podman
   14  apt install cockpit-podman cockpit-networkmanager
   16  apt install network-manager-l2tp
   58  apt install iptables-persistent
```

## VPN Connection

To connect to my UniFi L2PT network at home, I set up the connection
using `nmcli`:

```
$ nmcli c add con-name Home \
  type vpn \
  vpn-type l2tp \
  vpn.data 'gateway=<GATEWAY IP>, ipsec-enabled=yes, ipsec-psk=<PSK>, password-flags=0, user=<MY USER>' \
  vpn.secrets 'password=<MY SECRET PASSWORD>'
```

I then setup my Wired connection to always use the VPN (uuids from `nmcli c`)

```
$ nmcli c modify uuid 4d2d61c5-0da0-3fa4-a5bd-11f887e8610c +connection.secondaries 6020210e-4605-4c5a-afbd-a6bef4c24aae
```


## iptables

And configure iptables to forward traffic through the VPN:


```
# Generated by iptables-save v1.8.7 on Wed Apr  6 01:08:04 2022
*filter
:INPUT DROP [183:49914]
:FORWARD DROP [1886:122937]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [316:38255]
-A INPUT -i lo -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -i eth0 -p icmp -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -i eth0 -p tcp -m tcp --dport 22 -j ACCEPT
-A INPUT -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -i eth0 -o ppp0 -j ACCEPT
-A FORWARD -i ppp0 -o eth0 -m state --state RELATED,ESTABLISHED -j ACCEPT
COMMIT
# Completed on Wed Apr  6 01:08:04 2022
# Generated by iptables-save v1.8.7 on Wed Apr  6 01:08:04 2022
*nat
:PREROUTING ACCEPT [2056:170538]
:INPUT ACCEPT [2:148]
:OUTPUT ACCEPT [64:4711]
:POSTROUTING ACCEPT [64:4711]
-A POSTROUTING -o ppp0 -j MASQUERADE
COMMIT
# Completed on Wed Apr  6 01:08:04 2022
```

Make sure ipv4 forwarding is on in /etc/sysctl.conf, and configure
whatever devices you want to use your Pi as their gateway. I do not make
this the default, but rather just set static networking on the Apple
TV.
